I'm not normally in the habit of trying to tell God what to do, but as we sang the last verse of that last song, I thought, Lord, this would be a really good time for you to return and us all just go to glory together.
Those Satan shouldn't buffet, though trials should come.
Let this blessed assurance control
that Christ has regarded my helpless estate and has shed his own blood for my soul.
We see and hear about popular movies today.
Movies like Gladiator, movies like Braveheart, movies with epic battle scenes.
And it's so easy for us to walk away from this language of satanic warfare and warfare in general.
And begin to think that this is something glamorous until that is we see the bloody effects of war.
It sounds interesting to think about spiritual warfare and to sing war songs until we see the effects of the enemy who rages against our soul manifesting his power through an enslaved sin habit through
someone battling suicidal thoughts through watching a family self-destruct from divorce or any number of things from death.
It seems so glamorous until we're face to face with the ugly reality of sin and the stakes of this war in our lives that has broken out on the battlefront of Genesis 3 and everything that follows since sin has entered the world and we have a real adversary.
who seeks to kill, steal, and destroy.
There are no shortages of passages which present God as a warrior and the Christian life as a battlefield.
We read earlier, Exodus 15, three, which calls the Lord, quote, a man of war and the rest of the Old Testament displace that reality.
In the New Testament, 1 Timothy 1, 18, Paul tells Timothy to wage the good warfare
First Timothy 612, he says, fighting the good fight of the faith.
Take hold of eternal life.
When Paul was about to be killed for his faith in 2 Timothy 4-7, he said, I have fought the good fight.
I have what?
Kept the faith.
He told Timothy in 2 Timothy 2, share and suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits since his aim is to please the one.
who enlisted him.
He wrote to the Ephesians, and we have an entire chapter, Ephesians chapter six, about the armor of God, about our spiritual adversaries in the heavenly places, about the reality of this battlefront and the implications that it has in our lives and families, our church and our communities.
J.C. Ryle put it very succinctly this way,
Words such as these are clear, plain, and unmistakable.
They all teach one lesson if we are willing to receive it.
That lesson is that true Christianity is a struggle.
It's a fight and it is warfare.
Theologians refer to the church when she appears in glory as the church triumphant.
We will be the church triumphant in glory
when we are with the Lord, when Christ returns and we will enjoy all of the spoils of Christ's victory, we will rule over him, rule with him over all things, 1 Corinthians 6, 3 says, we will be crowned in and with him with honor and glory and eternal life.
But in the meantime theologians refer to our life in this world, corporately as the church militant.
militant.
We are battling against sin.
We are advancing against the powers of darkness, exposing darkness.
We are in the midst of it upholding light, pursuing holiness, loving truth.
We are warring against cosmic and demonic powers.
In this present age, the Bible says, as one missionary famously put it, we have all eternity to celebrate our victories.
but only a few hours before sunset to wind them.
The victory of heaven already belongs to us.
We are freely justified in Christ and we can do nothing to wind that victory.
It's already been done through God's own son.
But the responsibility of faithfulness is ours and it calls for combative militant action.
You can fill the force
of the Genesis 3 Grenades that come against us as sin enters into the world.
It's not just a high and lofty theological or philosophical discussion.
Spiritual warfare is unleashed in our lives through broken marriages, through suicide and depression, through wayward children.
through passive or even destructive men, through feministic Jezebels, through government leaders who go so far as to kill babies and destroy societies, through the hellish sexual revolution that we've been living through that only goes from bad to worse, through the war on our economy and a man's ability to earn an honest living through
through what we see in our food industry in Big Pharma and so many very tangible battle fronts before us that are assaults on physical life and on spiritual life.
Through false religions, through open borders, through a host of Marxism and many other isms, since Genesis 3, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a season of open war.
War against
individual people who are made in the image of God, war against your salvation, war against your family, war against our church, war against our community, war against our nation, war throughout the entire planet, which is a battle front for the glory of God.
And if he cannot destroy the glory of God, our enemy will seek to undermine it in every way that he possibly can.
The title of today's sermon is the war cry of the Christian life.
Turn with me in your Bible to second Corinthians chapter one.
Since we've been out of Corinthians for a few weeks,
I want you to see where we are in this book as we take a pretty major shift in turning point.
We saw in chapter one, if you'll just follow with me, maybe see the headings provided in your Bible.
We begin with the comfort and the promises of God amidst the very severe and personal afflictions in Paul's life.
We saw in chapter two, the power of true forgiveness in the church, we saw how we are triumphant in Christ, spreading the knowledge of God throughout the world.
We saw in chapter three, the beauty and power of new covenant ministry, written on the heart with the power to change and transform lives.
We saw in chapter four, the exhortation that we are not to lose heart, don't lose heart.
We have been given a mission and shall be faithful every single day with the gospel.
In Second Corinthians 5, in light of all of these afflictions that are coming against Paul and against the church, we see the strength that he has in the midst of war.
He and we have a heavenly hope of a new glorified reality with Christ.
And we have an ultimate aim.
We have a ministry now that has been entrusted to us
of being reconciled to God and reconciling others with Him and one another.
In chapter six, we saw a stark example of faithful endurance and Paul left us with this powerful punch and a call for holy living to be separated from idols and immorality and sin and idolatry and to pursue holiness in every way.
In chapter seven, we saw this plea for the church, open your hearts
have discernment in the midst of these very winsome false teachers and open your hearts back to your father in the faith, to the Apostle Paul who has brought the Word of God to you.
Open your hearts to true and faithful ministry so that you would warmly welcome the Word of God in your life so that you would repent of your sin, of putting up with sin in the church and those who would seek to destroy it.
In chapters eight through nine, if you'll look with me, we walk through two chapters which present beautiful examples and powerful exhortations of giving in the life of the church.
If you'll look with me in second Corinthians chapter 10, you'll notice just as we saw in chapter eight, a very stark and strong shift in this letter.
Now Paul moves from this section on giving
to a very aggressive, very militant tone.
And if you can read through it and see what's behind it, we also see a very, very sarcastic tone.
How many of you are sarcastic?
You will appreciate the words of Paul and the chapters that follow.
He comes both guns blazing.
Some argue that chapters 10 through 13
shift so drastically in both the language and the subject matter that they are an extra separate letter, maybe written before chapters one through nine, or maybe a separate letter that followed.
I disregarded that theory, I believe the second Corinthians is exactly as we hold it in our Bible.
I think the whole thing is one letter.
And I believe that what we're seeing in chapters one through seven
or false teachers that are pervading the church, a church that's confused, they're falling prey in their vulnerability to false doctrine, to false teachers.
And Paul is bearing with them, calling them to mind faithful ministry and to turn from this sin and to deal with sin in their midst.
And in chapter seven, we've looked at how Titus finally brings news that the church has repented.
They're willing to deal with all of these problems in their midst and revival has broken out in the church.
So Paul shifts tone in chapter eight.
And what he begins to do is say, one of his primary reasons in writing is to handle one of two pieces of unfinished business.
And so he tells the church, there are needy suffering saints in Jerusalem.
And you have made a prior commitment to generously give with other churches working together to fulfill that very dire need in their life.
So look at Jesus Christ, the ultimate example of giving.
Look at the church at Macedonia.
Follow their example.
I have boasted of you, of your generosity and the likeness of Jesus Christ.
So be generous givers.
to everyone, especially those who belong to the household of faith, Galatians says.
And so having pleaded with them to receive this ministry and then put their faith into action, having seen this egg charade of a dying man bleeding for the cause of Christ in his church, a man living under a continual death sentence, a man constantly reminding God's people of God's covenant promises, a man pleading for them to be faithful and return
Now Paul begins to shift gears and he begins to address this remaining faction within the church.
And he begins to warn the church of those who are still in her midst of those whom they need to be aware of the threat that they pose.
And so Paul comes forward with a very strong language.
Look with me in second Corinthians chapter 11 verse three.
He'll continue with other strong words, warning the church about those who would remain having not repented.
And we'll see in the next chapter of these words, but I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts, and he'll tell us in 2 Corinthians 10 what to do with our thoughts, your thoughts will be led astray
from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
That was Paul's aim, that ought to be our aim.
And so he's awakening them to the realities that surround them.
He is in chapter 10, now awakening the church to war, to war.
I want you to look with me in 2 Corinthians 10 verses 1 through 6 as we see three war cries of the Christian life.
Number one, we'll see in verses 1 through 2, the passion of our hearts, humble surrender before God.
Number two in verses 3 through 4, I want you to see the weapons of our warfare in the flesh, but not of the flesh.
Number three, verses five and six, we see the target of our mission, submission of every thaw to truth.
I love how the Geneva Bible introduces this section in a footnote by stating, he showeth with what confidence, with what weapons, and with what revenge he has armed against.
The calculations are the petty trivial objections of the wicked.
and that when he is present, his deeds have no less power than his words have force when he is absent.
Look with me in verse one, first of all, I want you to see the passion of our hearts, humble surrender before God.
Number one, verse one, Paul says, I, Paul, myself, entreat you
Or other translations read, I beseech you, I plead with you, I urge you.
It's a very passionate, it's a very personal tone.
He says, by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold towards you when I am away.
We saw a very strong shift like this, or we have in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, everything that Paul has written to this church and now to us.
And now it has a hinge, a shift in which now we're told what to do with those doctrines and with that information.
So basically what we have here,
is Daddy Paul, who is a father to this church.
He says, in 1 Corinthians 4, 13, having preached to them, having discipled them from the very beginning.
Now he begins to plead with them as a pastor, as a father, and he appeals to them.
And look with me in your Bible.
He says, by the meagness and gentleness of Jesus Christ, he grabs them by the collar and he says, it's me personally, myself.
Listen to me.
Now, there are times where we see in the Bible where Paul comes out of the gate like a roaring lion and he deals very strongly, very immediately, very aggressively with authority with some who would be in the church and outside the church.
He at times brings down the hammer.
Even among the church, like a father with a rod, disciplining his children for their own good.
And at other times, such as in the passage before us, we see even under such tense, important circumstances where the apostle Paul is very patient.
He's very gentle, he's very kind, and he's very long-suffering.
And if you're a father, if your mother isn't that something of the relationship that you and different seasons and times have with your own children, depending on the condition of their heart and the circumstances of their lives.
This is one of those times when Paul begins to plead very graciously with them, showing humility and showing love.
Look with me in verse one, he says,
When I who am humble, when face to face with you, he wants to be with them in personal presence.
Do we do that anymore?
Yet face to face with people.
When I am face to face with you.
And he's planning to go to them for a third visit.
He's made that clear in other verses.
He wants and desires to see them in person, but not under these circumstances.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are circumstances in our lives where rebellion needs to be crushed.
And there are other circumstances in our lives, such as the one before us where Paul seeks not to crush the rebellion, but to soften the rebellion, to soften the rebellion of his spiritual children in the faith.
I want you to see first, if you look with me in verse one, Paul acts by the meekness of Christ.
Numbers 12-3 says that Moses, quote, was very me, more than all the people who were on the face of the earth.
Listen to what the Bible says about meekness.
Psalm 37-11 says that the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace.
The meek, Isaiah 29 says will be given fresh joy.
Isaiah 11 promised that Jesus Christ would come and He would act for the sake of the meek.
Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5 verse 5 in the Beatitudes, blessed are who?
The meek.
For they shall inherit the earth.
In Colossians chapter 3 verse 12, Paul is calling on the church and the way that they act toward one another.
Among other virtues of humility and love and compassion and long suffering, he calls on them to put on the meekness of Jesus Christ.
Listen to me.
James says, receive the word of God.
And the condition of your heart under the ministry of God's word, James 1 21 says, is to receive it with meekness.
James 3.13 teaches us that true and genuine wisdom that's not from the pit of hell, but from heaven comes with the fruit of meekness that is shown through that understanding and wisdom.
Meekness has been commonly defined this way.
It's power under control.
Meekness could very easily be confused as weakness.
And that is exactly what Paul is being accused of right here.
This man talks a big game.
He hides behind, look with me in verse one, those letters.
Oh, he can write a big letter and he is bold and confident when he is writing and sending letters.
But when he comes in person, he's nothing more than a weak coward who shies away.
And Paul says, listen, I could come to you and I could drop the hammer.
I don't want to do that.
Listen, let me just tell you something this morning.
If you are the type of person that loves conflict, that looks forward to confrontation, if you just can't wait for a good confrontation to lock into, ladies and gentlemen, if that is you, please, you need professional help.
Something is desperately wrong with you.
Paul was the sort of person that did not like, tried to avoid conflict and confrontation, but when it presented itself and when it was necessary, he would never run from it.
He would run straight for it.
And it comes to them in this meagness of Christ.
I believe that it would be rightly defined as power under control.
I never forget my grandfather, my dad's dad, while he was living.
He used to tell me stories, listen to me, listen to those stories, children.
And he was a very, very large, strong man.
He served in the Navy.
He lived around the world.
And I remember there was one story he told me more than any other story.
And I think about it at least once a week.
He said that he was in the line on a ship getting chow.
And there was a man who began to get under his skin and come at him.
And he kept doing it, and my grandfather kept warning him, a very large, strong man, and he continued to do it.
And my grandfather reached across and picked this man up with one hand and laid him out within an inch of his life and was fixing to destroy him and end his last breath, and he could have done it.
And I said,
I said, Papa, that is cool.
That is a man's man.
And that is the kind of man that I want to be.
And he said something that I'll never forget.
He said, son, I want you to learn two lessons.
Number one, it takes a man to get mad.
Number two, but it takes a bigger man to control himself, to control himself.
And what a godly, manly man does is he makes sure that his life is surrendered and controlled by the purposes of God.
Paul was not a weak man.
Paul was a very powerful man with the spirit of God on his life.
but it was surrendered to the purposes of God.
The 1828 Webster's dictionary defines meekness this way, mild of temper, soft, gentle, not easily provoked or irritated, yielding, given to forbearance under injuries, appropriately
humble in an evangelical sense, submissive to the divine will, not proud, self-sufficient or refractory, not peevish or apt to complain of divine dispensations.
In other words, it's the opposite of pride and self-assertion.
The word is used in antiquity, the word meekness of rulers who would rule their people, but they would do it through self-mastery.
They would rule with benevolence.
They would be slow to anger.
They would demonstrate gentleness and courteousness and pity toward those who are under their rule.
Now, lest you think that Paul is soft or effeminate, just wait till we get to verse six, because there is another side as well.
Look with me in verse one, Paul not only acts by the meekness of Christ, but Paul secondly acts by the gentleness of Christ.
Gentleness is fruit of the Holy Spirit.
In a person's life, Galatians 5, 23, it means to be kind, to be reasonable, to be moderate, to be fair.
It's the opposite theologians say of a sort of inflexible severity.
In the same way that God is forbearing.
Turn back with me in first Corinthians chapter four, verse 21.
First Corinthians chapter four, verse 21,
Paul long ago, within the last year or two, has already laid forth the terms under which he would like to come to this church.
And any parent can understand this verse.
He says in 1 Corinthians 4, 21, what do you wish?
How do you wanna do this?
He says, shall I come to you with a rod?
Are you really going to make me come to you like that?
Listen.
If you're a parent or have parents, raise your hand if you've ever heard this.
This is gonna hurt me a whole lot more than it's gonna hurt you.
I don't know, Daddy.
I don't see you getting whipped, hurting me right now.
You'll understand one day.
And so you do.
What do you wish?
Shall I come to you with a rod and really do I need to come and beat this out of you?
because I will, I have the authority of God on my life, or with love in a spirit of who's there, who's looking at it, or in a spirit of what?
Gentleness, or in a spirit of gentleness to soften the rebellion in their hearts.
Paul preferred gentle persuasion when he could rather than beating them
into submission, but he did not mind coming to them with both guns blazing.
When the circumstances called for it, and particularly against those who had threatened his church in the form of false teachers who would turn his people into pretzels.
And that's what's going on.
The general principle that you see, I believe in the life of Jesus himself,
is commonly summed up in this way, law to the proud, grace to the humble, to the religious leaders who had their necks stiff before God, and they continually refuse to repent after long suffering over and over and over, and they continue to live in rebellion.
They continue to reject clear light.
They continue to stiffen their neck before God.
What we often see is that
Jesus mows them down with the law of God so that they could see the rebellion.
But to those who feel the weight of their sin and who are already crushed under the awareness of their rebellion, what we see is the extension of grace and mercy, grace and mercy.
The meekness and gentleness of Christ, Galatians 6-1 is actually the instructions that Paul is following.
Brothers, if anyone is called in any transgression, you who are spiritual, meaning those of you who are minding the things of the Spirit, your mind is set on the Spirit, not your personal ego, not the fact that you're offended, not the fact that there's some personal squabble between the two of you, you are minding the things of the Holy Spirit.
That's you, you RBC.
By the way, I think this is one of the,
largest ways this church has grown in over the last few years.
You who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness.
2 Timothy 2 says, correct your opponents with gentleness so that God may grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth and that they would escape the snares of the devil.
1 Peter 3 15 says, make a defense
boldly of your faith, but do so with respect and gentleness.
2 Peter 3, 9, Christ is patient and he will come and he will drop the hammer in judgment.
And in the meantime, he is so long suffering toward you and me.
So Paul is being cast as weak as dishonorable, reaching all the way back to 1 Corinthians 9.
He won't receive support from the church.
And because he won't, it looks like he's illegitimate.
Over and over, in 2 Corinthians 11, 6, we read something like this, he lacked eloquent speech.
And because he couldn't speak so winsomely, so eloquently, they labeled him as weak.
And then in chapter three, verse one, he has no letters of recommendation from powerful people.
Chapter 12, verse 12, where are your mighty works?
Chapter 12, verse one, are they accusing of not having visions it appears?
Listen to what 1 Thessalonians says, we could have made demands as apostles of Christ, but we were gentle among you like a nursing mother taking care of our own children.
So being affectionately desirous,
affectionately desirous of you.
We were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves because you had become very dear to us.
1 Timothy 3, says the qualification of an elder is that they are to be not violent in the wrong sense of the word, but gentle.
Titus 3 says to speak evil of no one to avoid quarreling and to be gentle, showing perfect courteousness, courtesy.
We see the same in Ephesians chapter 4, which says, we're to interact with one another with humility and with gentleness.
The man of God in 1 Timothy 611 is to pursue gentleness.
The Bible speaks of this more frequently than you may realize, even the Old Testament.
2 Samuel 22, as well as in Psalm 18, says that what makes a man great and powerful
is the right use of gentleness.
Jesus himself, take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle, or it could be translated meek and lowly and hard, and you will find rest for your soul."
John Calvin put it this way.
It is the duty of a good pastor to allure his sheep peacefully and kindly.
that they may allow themselves to be governed rather than to constrain them by violence.
Severity, it is true.
I acknowledge, is sometimes necessary, but we must always set out with gentleness and perseverance.
So long as the hearer shows himself tractable or humble and pliable, he says, severity must be the last resource.
We must, as he, try all methods before having recourse to rigor, name more, let us never be rigorous unless we are constrained to it.
So many times I've seen in church discipline situations.
When there's someone in church in sin, and they're the ones under discipline, they want nothing but meekness and gentleness.
But those in the church who've been offended by their sin will nothing but to drop the hammer immediately.
So Paul, if you'll look with me in verse one, seems to very sarcastically quote what his enemies are saying falsely about him.
And 2 Corinthians 10-10, they're saying his letters are strong, but his presence is weak.
Look with me in verse one.
It's as if Paul is saying this, as they say, I'm humble or it could read bass or lowly when I'm with you.
That's what they say, but I'm bold when I'm absent from you.
Do you understand what's going on here?
Paul is basically being accused of being a keyboard warrior.
Do you know anyone in your life that they almost have two completely different existences?
When they're behind a keyboard texting or maybe even emailing, social media, direct message, whatever it is, man, they are like a lion over everything.
But when you are with them in personal presence, it is so different.
You're almost like, who are you?
And then you have a confrontation with someone through text or online and they talk such a big game and then
You try to get eyeball to eyeball, and all of a sudden they melt like a candle before furnace.
Keyboard warrior, that's all Paul is.
And Paul says, oh, I can get rowdy, but I would prefer not to do it that way.
Look with me in verse two, I beg.
The King James says, I beseech of you that when I am present, I may not have to show boldness with such confidence
as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh.
In other words, don't make me come down there.
They're accusing him of walking according to the flesh.
This word phrase, rather, according to the flesh is used throughout 2 Corinthians.
Sometimes it means that a person is just literally walking in the flesh.
a physical personal bodily expression.
But oftentimes this phrase according to the flesh refers to living according to the ways of the world, giving in to your own sin nature.
And in this sense, I believe what Paul is saying here is that his detractors, his enemies are accusing him, undermining his calling and his credibility, telling the church not to listen to him and saying that he's operating according to the flesh.
He's just in it for the reputation, for the spotlight to lead them in his own particular ways.
And Paul says, I want your hearts humbled.
I want your hearts humbled.
Friends, what is the condition of your heart?
If you were honest before the God of heaven who already knows, are there shreds a rebellion of being stiff-net, of insisting on your own way, of self-assertion?
This is gonna go this way, and I'm gonna get my way.
Do you have the heart that Paul is writing against in the Corinthians right here?
that is going to be my way or the highway.
And I'm not listening to anyone else.
Or is your heart what Hall is calling them to display, one that is humble and teachable?
We might say, pliable, it's easy to ground up.
It's responsible to the nutrients around it, just like soil.
What is the condition of your heart before God?
in your marriage before your children, before your parents, before those that you work with.
Look with me in verse three.
Paul shifts gears, having addressed the passion of our hearts, humble surrender before God, he moves now to the weapons of our warfare.
In the flesh, but not of the flesh, read with me.
Paul says in verse three, for though we walk in the flesh.
In other words, we are living in these physical bodies in that sense.
We live in a world where people made in God's image.
We are not just spiritual beings, we are physical beings in a physical battlefield.
For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh.
Now, the one thing Paul assumes that we understand in this verse without even saying it is that we are waging war.
It's very militant, combative language.
And he says we're not doing it according to the flesh.
The assumption here is that worship in and of itself is warfare.
Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize when we come in here to worship, we are not just doing cute little things that make us feel better?
I want you to understand that when we worship, we are engaging in spiritual warfare.
We are declaring whether you realize it or not that Satan is not on the throne,
that Jesus is King, that we want darkness exposed, we want to exalt the light, and there is no King but King Jesus.
Over our lives, our church, our communities, Jesus Christ is Lord.
It's the greatest statement of insurrection that this world could ever hear.
Jesus Christ is Lord, is a declaration of war.
against all of the powers in this world who refuse his holy name.
So when we come in and sing, we're not just participating in a therapeutic exercises, we are declaring where our hope is, we are declaring where our glory is, and we are declaring where our genius.
And we are pushing back darkness and declaring light.
We are denouncing every other God.
And we are saying that there's only one God and there's only one name under heaven given to men by which they may be safe.
Did you hear when we read through 2 Kings, chapter 23?
Did you get that?
Israel had one sinful king after the other.
And even the best of kings
who had turned back to the Lord, it was always the high places.
Do you ever read that?
Are you reading through the Bible, the high places?
He'd left the high places where pagan worship would occur, where they would think that they were higher to the gods and God knows all of the unspeakable atrocities that would happen in those high places.
And a man, a young man by the name of Josiah was coordinated as king.
And the word of God was found after having been buried.
It was read to him.
He shredded his clothes.
He repented before the law of God.
He made the people swear by covenant that they would be bound together and obey the Lord, humble surrender before him.
And then Josiah took that show on the road.
He put his faith into action and he marched throughout the entire land.
And he took every idol and he ground it to powder.
literally destroyed everything that was in opposition to the reign of King Jesus.
And he said, we will have none of that under our land.
How about that for religious freedom?
You can worship the God of heaven, the only God in all of heaven and earth.
And he declares war.
He says, we're not waging war according to the flesh, theologians,
differ in the discussions and the speculations about specifically what's meant to wage war, according to the flesh, could refer to taking revenge into your own hands when the power of the sword belongs to the civil magistrate.
It could refer to cheating and lying and stealing and deceiving, resorting to schemes that are sinful.
in this warfare.
Paul says, we are people of truth.
It could refer, we don't wage war according to the flesh.
We're not exalting ourselves.
We're not pompous.
We're not trying to draw attention to ourselves.
We're not showy.
I think likely what it refers to according to the flesh, we're not relying on our own resources.
This goes far beyond mere human earthly resources.
because the battle goes so much farther beyond that in the heavenly places.
It could mean that we're not gonna step over and destroy other people to get to the top of the ladder.
Paul says, I believe we're not waging war merely according to human resources.
Look with me in verse four.
For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, not of what we can put in our hands and under our feet.
And he doesn't even name what they are, but he does say in verse four, they have divine power to destroy strongholds.
So in verse four, Paul lays out our arsenal.
This is the artillery for the Christian life.
The new American standards says they are divinely powerful or they're mighty through God.
If you'll look with me in 2 Corinthians 6, 7 flipping back just a couple of pages, Paul says, here's how we commend ourselves.
We commend ourselves with the weapons of righteousness for both the right hand and the left.
In truth and in purity and in holiness.
Ephesians chapter 6 verse 11 says that we are to stand firm and put on the whole armor of God.
Psalm 144 puts it this way, he trains my hands for war.
He trains my fingers for battle.
Again, Calvin explains it this way.
The life of a Christian, it is true, is a perpetual warfare.
For whoever gives himself to the service of God will have no truth from Satan at any time, but will be harassed
with incessant disquietude.
In other words, you sign up for the Lord's army and you will be harassed for the rest of your life with a target on your back.
And the stakes are real.
And what we see here is that there is a divine power at our disposal.
The word fortress or stronghold would refer to the highest part of a fortress, a castle.
Sometimes they would imprison prisoners.
This would be the place that if any other place could be invaded, this was the central location.
This was the place of security.
This was the place of strength.
This was a perimeter that was marked and secure in every way.
2 Corinthians 13, Paul says, Christ is speaking through me.
And he was crucified and weakness, but he is powerful through his people.
He says in 1 Corinthians 2, 5, that he doesn't speak eloquently or impressively.
He doesn't want the church's faith to rest on his personality and ability, but he says, I want your faith to rest on the mighty power of God.
to destroy strongholds of sin that make their way into your life and your family and your church and your community.
You are mighty in God to destroy those strongholds that hold out against you and have a vice grip on your life.
Jeremiah 1 10 speaks of the Lord's servant or the Lord's word through his servant.
And it's a word that would destroy and overthrow.
And then it would build up and plant everything good in its place.
So in verse four, Paul is taking us as Christians behind enemy lines to the strongest, most secure, most unconquerable, most indomitable place of the enemy.
And he has given us a recipe for how to subdue it.
Wherever you see sinful lifestyles, wherever you see false doctrine, it's the most general of terms, all encompassing, whether it be idolatry or immorality, lifestyle or doctrine, wherever these things begin to get entrenched in a person or in a community and they are legion among us today.
What you begin to develop in your life is a stronghold.
of sin, even over an entire community, it's a vice grip over the hearts and the minds of the people.
And it can be passed down from generation to generation and it can make its way like leaven through the whole loaf.
Paul is saying that our weaponry is far superior to earthly swords and spears.
Now, there is one thing in this world
that is far more superior than every arsenal, every Navy SEAL, every Crusader, every physical weapon that a man can possibly think of.
The most powerful weapon in the entire world is the truth, the truth.
There is no more powerful weapon than the truth of God brought to bear on man's lives.
So Paul doesn't give it, but let me just lay it out for you because it's so clear in other passages.
What is this weaponry specifically?
Here it is.
It's the Word of God.
Reading the Bible and seeking to obey the Bible.
It's not only the Word, but it's prayer.
It's seeking the God of heaven in our lives.
It's the ordinances of baptism and the Lord's Supper.
It's the gift of discipline.
that God has put within our lives in the church.
It's the power of a holy life.
Look with me in 2 Corinthians chapter 6.
Turn in your Bibles to 2 Corinthians 6, 6, and 7.
Paul says, we commend ourselves.
We fight by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love, verse 7, truthful speech and the power of God.
with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left.
These weapons in our life go far beyond swords and missiles.
Nahum chapter 1 verse 7 says that the Lord Himself is a stronghold.
As we destroy those strongholds in the Bible, the
The God of heaven is pictured as a stronghold, and in our day of trouble, we don't always know what to do, but listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, we do know where to run.
We run to the stronghold, to Yahweh, to the Lord God of heaven, and we take refuge in him.
Do you hear me?
Finally, number three.
Turn back with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 5.
I want you to see thirdly, the target of our mission.
The target of our mission is the submission of every thought to truth.
Children, listen to me, this is our memory verse for the month.
Every single person, I wanna charge you and encourage you, memorize this verse as soon as possible.
Second Corinthians, chapter 10, verse five.
I'm reading from the ESV, which is not because I think it's the best translation, it's just what we use as a church.
If you had the ESV, raise your voice and let's read it aloud together.
Verse five, chapter 10.
We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God and take every thought captive to obey Christ again.
We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion
raised against the knowledge of God and take every thought captive to obey Christ.
Again, we destroy arguments in every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God and take every thought captive to obey Christ.
Again, we destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God and take every thought captive to obey Christ.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the secret of the Christian life.
The Christian life, I believe, is one or lost on a daily basis in the battlefront of your mind and mind.
It's the mind.
Certainly it's the heart, certainly it's the soul, but ideologies and ideas
are the battle front of life, your thoughts and the things that you and I entertain and the way that we think and the things that we think about, this is where the battle is won or lost every single day.
As the famous book says, ideas have consequences.
Ideas have consequences because ideas when they are believed grow arms and they grow feet and then they begin to take action.
Ideas really do have consequences for better or for worse.
Look with me in verse five, we destroy arguments, our speculations, or we cast down imaginations.
It refers to putting down and dismantling every argument that's raised above and is in opposition to the fundamental truths about God.
For us, it might be secular humanism.
It might be Darwinianism.
It might be cultural Marxism.
It might be feminism.
You could list a million different isms.
We destroy arguments that raise themselves up in the most fundamental ways.
We're not talking about every theological debate, the fundamental ones that cut against the grain of the truth of God.
Look with me in your Bible.
Every lofty opinion.
Do you know anyone that loves their own opinion?
Dr. Bob, before he passed, he used to sit right there where Matt is.
He told me, he said, Brandon, there's only one thing in life that everybody hates.
What is it, Dr. Bob?
Unsolicited opinions.
Everybody has one and everyone loves to share theirs and they are lofty and they're exalted and you need to listen to me.
Every lofty opinion that is raised against the knowledge of God, it could read in the King James, every high theme, every tower, every rampart of high intellectual assertions against divine truth.
Every person that comes
presenting themselves as an expert with credentials, with titles, with charisma, with lofty opinions that sound good, that woo people, but when you begin to peel back the layers of the onion, they are in defiance against the knowledge of God.
It means that the point is not that we are trying to win an argument for argument's sake.
The point is that we want to destroy every high tower of unbelief and rebellion in the high places.
And the battle of our lives is the battle of unbelief.
Did you know that most of your problems in mind come back in one way to unbelief?
We don't believe the promises of God in our life and it's a war.
of who we're going to believe.
And it's been a war over the last few years that's raging because we are realizing more and more that we live in a world of lies everywhere you look, everywhere you turn.
Lies, lies, and more lies.
And the most powerful thing in the entire universe is the truth.
And the place
The only place where you find the truth, the knowledge of God and His holy word.
So listen, I am not trying to mobilize us as a church to begin to go after one another or even go after our neighbors on every infraction of error.
I hope that we are mature beyond that.
But where the truth is at stake in important ways,
The weapons of our warfare are living and seeking to proclaim and live according to it.
Look with me finally.
Take every thought captive, bring into captivity, not just worldly ideologies, but every thought that enters into your mind.
Listen to the terminology.
It means take prisoners of war.
everything that you should not be thinking, that is not honoring to God on every front, that is not edifying for the Christian life.
Every thought that you have come into your mind, what the Bible is saying is you take it captive, you imprison it, you round it up.
Every thought, you take a captive immediately, the Bible says, to obey Christ or to the obedience of Christ, you bring that thought under the lordship of Jesus Christ.
You refuse to entertain it, you repent of it, and then you replace it with the counterpart of it that would honor God.
This is why Philippians chapter four, verse eight, calls us to set our minds on that which is true and good and beautiful.
every single day, because you are what you worship, and you will become what you think.
You will become what you think.
And over and over, Paul says that he was not found in eloquence of speech.
He was not found in deceit and air, but an open plain statement of the truth.
2 Corinthians 4, 2.
And finally, verse 6, being ready to punish every disobedience
Paul now moves from meekness and gentleness and he shows that he is ready to take action in a very authoritative way if their hearts are not humbled before him and he will deal with false teachers.
And if you're new to RBC, we have done that and we will do that in every place necessary.
There have been people that I have had to tell.
Last Sunday was your last Sunday, you will not be coming back here because you are a wolf and you are a threat to the flock.
That's just called being a good shepherd.
Verse six says, being ready to punish every disobedience.
This is every defiance
against faithful ministry and the teaching that Paul lays out in this letter.
He says, when your obedience, likely referring to your obedience to everything that Paul has been writing to them is complete or fulfilled.
So he's me, but he brings authority.
Jesus in the great commission says that he has all authority in heaven and earth.
And the great commission is that we make disciples and we teach them to obey everything that he commanded.
So Paul sought to bring not only the truth of ideas and doctrines, but the obedience of faith to all the nations Romans 1 5 says.
He says in 2 Corinthians 2 9 that he's writing to them to see if they would be obedient in everything.
And that's the report of 2 Corinthians 7.
Titus reported the obedience of them all where their faith begins to take action.
and their lives begin to conform to Jesus Christ.
So the weapons of our warfare and our war cry is laid out.
We put on the belt of truth because Jesus is the truth.
We put on the breastplate of righteousness because Jesus Christ is our righteousness.
We put on the shoes of the gospel of peace because Jesus Christ is our peace.
We take up the shield of faith because Jesus is the author of our faith.
We put on the helmet of salvation because Jesus Christ is our salvation.
We take up prayer and the sword of the spirit, the word of God because Jesus is the word of God.
Just as Romans 13 says, cast off the works of darkness, put on the armor of light, and in so doing, put on the Lord Jesus Christ.
Let's pray together.
As one Puritan prayed, Lord, direct my feet that I be not entangled in Satan's secret snares, nor fall into his hidden traps.
defend us from a sailing foes, from evil circumstances, from myself.
Our adversaries are part and parcel of our nature.
They cling to us as our very skin.
I cannot escape their contact.
Am I rising up and sitting down?
They attach themselves to me.
They entice me with constant baits.
My enemy is within the citadel.
Come with almighty power and cast him out.
Pierce him to death and abolish within me every particle of carnal life this day.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.